# LigDream: Shape-Based Compound Generation

### Citing

If you are using content of the repository please consider citing the follow work:

```
@article{skalic2019shape,
  title={Shape-Based Generative Modeling for de-novo Drug Design},
  author={Skalic, Miha and Jim{\'e}nez Luna, Jos{\'e} and Sabbadin, Davide and De Fabritiis, Gianni},
  journal={Journal of chemical information and modeling},
  doi = {10.1021/acs.jcim.8b00263},
  publisher={ACS Publications}
}
```

### Requirements


Model training is written in `pytorch==0.3.1` and uses `keras==2.2.2` for data loaders. `RDKit==2017.09.2.0` and `HTMD==1.13.9` are needed for molecule manipulation.

Add the repo to your pythonpath

      export PYTHONPATH=/path/to/ligdream/repo/:$PYTHONPATH

### Before starting

For the training a smi file is needed. We used subset of the Zinc15 dataset, using only the drug-like. The same cleaned dataset can be retrieve by using the `getDataset.sh` script. The latter will download the smi file required for the *training* (see next section).

      bash getDataset.sh

In the `traindataset` folder there will be the `zinc15_druglike_clean_canonical_max60.smi` file that is required for the training step (see next section).

For the generation stage the model files are necessary. It is possible to use the
ones that are generated during the training step or you can download the ones that
we have already generated by using the following script:

      bash getWeights.sh

In the `modelweights` folder there will be the three models:

* decoder-210000.pkl
* encoder-210000.pkl
* vae-210000.pkl

## Training

Note that training runs on a GPU and it will take several days to complete.

First construct a set of training molecules:
```
$ python prepare_data.py -i "./path/to/my/smiles.smi" -o "./path/to/my/smiles.npy"
```

Secondly, execute the training of a model:

```
$ python train.py -i "./path/to/my/smiles.npy" -o "./path/to/models"
```

## Generation

Web based compund generation is available at [https://playmolecule.org/LigDream/](https://playmolecule.org/LigDream/).

For an example of local novel compound generation please follow notebook `generate.ipynb`.


### License

Code is released under GNU AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
